KubernetesDeepDive/README.md, before:

# Kubernetes Deep Dive

### Instructor<br>**Nigel Poulton**

<br>

### Course Outline

### Kubernetes Big Picture
- Section Overview
- Kubernetes Primer
- The Kubernetes API
- Kubernetes Objects
- Quick ways to get your own cluster

### Application Architecture
- Section Overview
- Theory
- Look at the sample app
- Section Recap

### Kubernetes Networking
- Section Overview
- Common Networking Requirements
- Sample App Requirements
- Kubernetes Networking Basics
- Kubernetes Service Fundamentals
- Service Types
- The Service Network
- Demo
- Section Recap

### Kubernetes Storage
- Section Intro
- Kubernetes Storage Big Picture
- The Container Storage Interface
- Persistent Volumes and Persistent Volume Claims
- Storage Classes
- Demo
- Section Recap

### From Code to Kubernetes
- Section Intro
- Big Picture
- Demo
- Section Recap

### Kubernetes Deployments
- Section Intro
- Theory of Deployments
- Demo
- Recap

### Scaling Applications Automatically
- Section Intro
- Big Picture
- Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Theory
- Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Demo
- Cluster Autoscaler Theory
- Cluster Autoscaler Demo
- Section Recap

### RBAC and Admission Control
- Section Intro
- Big Picture
- Authentication
- Authorization
- Admission Control
- Demo
- Recap

### Other Kubernetes Stuff
- Other Kubernetes Stuff

<br><br>

## Installation
### Private PC
- Minicube
- Docker for Desktop

### Cloud providers
- AKS (hosted)
- GKS (hosted)
- EKS (hosted)
- Kops

### On-prem
- Kubeadm

### Web practice 
- Play With Kubernetes (PWK)
  - http://play-with-k8s.com
  - 4 hours playground
  

# Notes

## Kubernetes Big Picture
- Section Overview


- Kubernetes Primer


- The Kubernetes API


- Kubernetes Objects


- Quick ways to get your own cluster




## Application Architecture
- Section Overview


- Theory


- Look at the sample app


- Section Recap




## Kubernetes Networking
- Section Overview


- Common Networking Requirements


- Sample App Requirements


- Kubernetes Networking Basics

  Core Rules:
  - All Nodes can talk
  - All Pods can talk (No NAT) with the use of `CNI plugin`
  - Every Pod gets its own IP

  **How it works:**

  Nodes get allocated a IP range to operate with (i.e Node1: 10.0.1.0/24, Node2: 10.0.2.0/24)
  Whenever the deployment is triggered,, K8s will allocate pods to a Node, and an IP address from the range tha belongs to the Node will be allocated to the Pod (i.e Node1-Pod1: 10.0.1.1, Node2-Pod2: 10.0.2.19)

  The Ip allocate to the node is available to all other Nodes and Pods for communication. Pod is also selfaware of its own IP address. 

- Kubernetes Service Fundamentals

  Services are stable abstraction point for pods. We create service and logically put it in front of the pods. So all other services instead of communication with Pods (whos IP regularlly change due to Pods crashin, scaling up/down, etc).

  **How it works:**

  Frontend:

  - Every service gets a name (i.e. `search-api`) and IP (i.e. `172.11.240.5`). Those two values are stable, and remain reserved for the service. The name and IP get registered with cluster's native DNS. Every pod knows how to use the core DNS and resolve the name to the address (Note: you might have to enable DNS).

  Backend:
  - On the backend (communication service to pods) it reolves the traffic destination by **lables**. 
  ![](img/services-1.png)

  - When you create a service for the lable selector, K8s also creates another object on the cluster called `Endpoint Object`. It contains the list of Pod IPs and ports that match the service lable selector. 
  The Endpoint Object always has the same name as the service object it is associated with. And it maintains the list of all pods service can send requests to.
  ![](img/services-2.png)

- Service Types

  There are several types of services in Kubernetes:

  - **ClusterIP (default)** 
  
    This is the default type of service. It exposes the Service on a cluster-internal IP. This means the service is only reachable from within the cluster.

    - Gets own IP
    - Only accessible from within cluster

  - **NodePort**
  
    This type of service exposes the Service on each Node's IP at a static port. A client can connect to the NodePort service from outside the cluster by using the Node's IP address and the static port number.

    - Gets cluster-wide port
    - Also accessible from outside of cluster
    - Default range for port selection 30000-32767. You can change this range with `--service-node-port-range` or hadcode desired port number in service description. 
    - Can be of TCP (default) or UDP
  
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      metadata:
        name: wordpress
        labels:
          app: wordpress
      spec:
        type: NodePort
        ports:
          - port: 80 # Port that the Pods are listening on
            nodePort: 30080 # Cluster-wide port that the service listens on
        selector:
          app: wordpress
    ```

    ![](img/service-types-1.png)
    To access this service you would use combination of node IP (i.e. `192.168.50.1`) and port number (i.e. NodePort `3126`) : `192.168.50.1:3126`

  - **LoadBalancer**
  
    This service type automatically creates an external load balancer in a cloud environment (like AWS, GCP, Azure) and assigns a unique external IP to the service. It is suitable for scenarios where you want to expose your service to the internet.

    Extrnal load balancer is used as proxy to forward traffic to your K8s cluster, usually via NodePort, but K8s configured this automatically. 


  - **ExternalName**
  
    This type of service is used to give an external name (DNS name) to a service, rather than exposing it internally within the cluster. It redirects requests to the external name to a CNAME record.

- The Service Network

  When you create a service it gets static IP. This static IP is allocated from **service network** range:

  ![](img/service-network-1.png)

  However, there a subtle differences between how usual network and k8s network operates. 

  Each Node in k8s cluster has a `kube-proxy`.

  Kube-proxy is a crucial component of a Kubernetes cluster responsible for managing network connectivity to Kubernetes services. It runs on each node in the cluster and maintains network rules to handle forwarding of traffic to the appropriate pods or services. Essentially, kube-proxy enables communication between different parts of your Kubernetes cluster.

    Here's what kube-proxy does:

    - **Service Proxy**
     
      Kube-proxy maintains network rules on each node to support service abstraction. It watches the Kubernetes API for changes to services and endpoints and updates the rules accordingly. This ensures that traffic to a service's ClusterIP, NodePort, or LoadBalancer is properly forwarded to the correct destination pods.
    
    - **Load Balancing**
    
      For services that require load balancing, kube-proxy distributes incoming requests across multiple pods that provide the service. This helps distribute the workload evenly and ensures high availability and scalability of applications.

    - **NodePort Handling**
    
      If a service is exposed using the NodePort type, kube-proxy ensures that each node in the cluster forwards traffic on the specified port to the appropriate pods, even if those pods are on different nodes.

    - **Cluster Networking**
    
      Kube-proxy plays a role in enabling communication between pods across nodes in the cluster by managing network routing and IP address assignment.

    <br><br>When one pod wants to communicate with another pod within the same Kubernetes cluster:

    - It typically sends the request to the IP address associated with the service.

    - The request is intercepted by kube-proxy, which manages service abstraction and routing.

    - Kube-proxy forwards the request to the appropriate pod based on the service's endpoint configuration.

    - DNS resolution might be involved, but it's handled internally by Kubernetes rather than relying directly on the node's DNS.

      ![](img/service-network-2.png)


<br><br>


  **Kube-proxy modes**
  - **Kube-proxy IPTABLES Mode**
    - Default since Kubernetes 1.2
    - Doesn't scale well
    - Not really designed for load balancing
  - **Kube-proxy IPVS Mode**
    - Stable (GA) since Kubernetes 1.11
    - Uses Linux kernel IP Virtual Server
    - Native Layer-4 load balancer
    - Supports more algorithms

    - Note:
      Kube-proxy in IPVS mode does create dummy interfaces on the Service Network (usually called kube-ipvs®). Kube-proxy in IPTABLES mode does not.

- Demo


- Section Recap




## Kubernetes Storage
- Section Intro


- Kubernetes Storage Big Picture


- The Container Storage Interface


- Persistent Volumes and Persistent Volume Claims


- Storage Classes


- Demo


- Section Recap




## From Code to Kubernetes
- Section Intro


- Big Picture


- Demo


- Section Recap




## Kubernetes Deployments
- Section Intro


- Theory of Deployments


- Demo


- Recap




## Scaling Applications Automatically
- Section Intro


- Big Picture


- Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Theory


- Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Demo


- Cluster Autoscaler Theory


- Cluster Autoscaler Demo


- Section Recap




## RBAC and Admission Control
- Section Intro


- Big Picture


- Authentication


- Authorization


- Admission Control


- Demo


- Recap




## Other Kubernetes Stuff
- Other Kubernetes Stuff

Commit message:

Add Storage and CSI intro notes

KubernetesDeepDive/README.md, after:

# Kubernetes Deep Dive

### Instructor<br>**Nigel Poulton**

<br>

### Course Outline

### Kubernetes Big Picture
- Section Overview
- Kubernetes Primer
- The Kubernetes API
- Kubernetes Objects
- Quick ways to get your own cluster

### Application Architecture
- Section Overview
- Theory
- Look at the sample app
- Section Recap

### Kubernetes Networking
- Section Overview
- Common Networking Requirements
- Sample App Requirements
- Kubernetes Networking Basics
- Kubernetes Service Fundamentals
- Service Types
- The Service Network
- Demo
- Section Recap

### Kubernetes Storage
- Section Intro
- Kubernetes Storage Big Picture
- The Container Storage Interface
- Persistent Volumes and Persistent Volume Claims
- Storage Classes
- Demo
- Section Recap

### From Code to Kubernetes
- Section Intro
- Big Picture
- Demo
- Section Recap

### Kubernetes Deployments
- Section Intro
- Theory of Deployments
- Demo
- Recap

### Scaling Applications Automatically
- Section Intro
- Big Picture
- Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Theory
- Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Demo
- Cluster Autoscaler Theory
- Cluster Autoscaler Demo
- Section Recap

### RBAC and Admission Control
- Section Intro
- Big Picture
- Authentication
- Authorization
- Admission Control
- Demo
- Recap

### Other Kubernetes Stuff
- Other Kubernetes Stuff

<br><br>

## Installation
### Private PC
- Minicube
- Docker for Desktop

### Cloud providers
- AKS (hosted)
- GKS (hosted)
- EKS (hosted)
- Kops

### On-prem
- Kubeadm

### Web practice 
- Play With Kubernetes (PWK)
  - http://play-with-k8s.com
  - 4 hours playground
  

# Notes

## Kubernetes Big Picture
- Section Overview


- Kubernetes Primer


- The Kubernetes API


- Kubernetes Objects


- Quick ways to get your own cluster




## Application Architecture
- Section Overview


- Theory


- Look at the sample app


- Section Recap




## Kubernetes Networking
- Section Overview


- Common Networking Requirements


- Sample App Requirements


- Kubernetes Networking Basics

  Core Rules:
  - All Nodes can talk
  - All Pods can talk (No NAT) with the use of `CNI plugin`
  - Every Pod gets its own IP

  **How it works:**

  Nodes get allocated a IP range to operate with (i.e Node1: 10.0.1.0/24, Node2: 10.0.2.0/24)
  Whenever the deployment is triggered,, K8s will allocate pods to a Node, and an IP address from the range tha belongs to the Node will be allocated to the Pod (i.e Node1-Pod1: 10.0.1.1, Node2-Pod2: 10.0.2.19)

  The Ip allocate to the node is available to all other Nodes and Pods for communication. Pod is also selfaware of its own IP address. 

- Kubernetes Service Fundamentals

  Services are stable abstraction point for pods. We create service and logically put it in front of the pods. So all other services instead of communication with Pods (whos IP regularlly change due to Pods crashin, scaling up/down, etc).

  **How it works:**

  Frontend:

  - Every service gets a name (i.e. `search-api`) and IP (i.e. `172.11.240.5`). Those two values are stable, and remain reserved for the service. The name and IP get registered with cluster's native DNS. Every pod knows how to use the core DNS and resolve the name to the address (Note: you might have to enable DNS).

  Backend:
  - On the backend (communication service to pods) it reolves the traffic destination by **lables**. 
  ![](img/services-1.png)

  - When you create a service for the lable selector, K8s also creates another object on the cluster called `Endpoint Object`. It contains the list of Pod IPs and ports that match the service lable selector. 
  The Endpoint Object always has the same name as the service object it is associated with. And it maintains the list of all pods service can send requests to.
  ![](img/services-2.png)

- Service Types

  There are several types of services in Kubernetes:

  - **ClusterIP (default)** 
  
    This is the default type of service. It exposes the Service on a cluster-internal IP. This means the service is only reachable from within the cluster.

    - Gets own IP
    - Only accessible from within cluster

  - **NodePort**
  
    This type of service exposes the Service on each Node's IP at a static port. A client can connect to the NodePort service from outside the cluster by using the Node's IP address and the static port number.

    - Gets cluster-wide port
    - Also accessible from outside of cluster
    - Default range for port selection 30000-32767. You can change this range with `--service-node-port-range` or hadcode desired port number in service description. 
    - Can be of TCP (default) or UDP
  
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      metadata:
        name: wordpress
        labels:
          app: wordpress
      spec:
        type: NodePort
        ports:
          - port: 80 # Port that the Pods are listening on
            nodePort: 30080 # Cluster-wide port that the service listens on
        selector:
          app: wordpress
    ```

    ![](img/service-types-1.png)
    To access this service you would use combination of node IP (i.e. `192.168.50.1`) and port number (i.e. NodePort `3126`) : `192.168.50.1:3126`

  - **LoadBalancer**
  
    This service type automatically creates an external load balancer in a cloud environment (like AWS, GCP, Azure) and assigns a unique external IP to the service. It is suitable for scenarios where you want to expose your service to the internet.

    Extrnal load balancer is used as proxy to forward traffic to your K8s cluster, usually via NodePort, but K8s configured this automatically. 


  - **ExternalName**
  
    This type of service is used to give an external name (DNS name) to a service, rather than exposing it internally within the cluster. It redirects requests to the external name to a CNAME record.

- The Service Network

  When you create a service it gets static IP. This static IP is allocated from **service network** range:

  ![](img/service-network-1.png)

  However, there a subtle differences between how usual network and k8s network operates. 

  Each Node in k8s cluster has a `kube-proxy`.

  Kube-proxy is a crucial component of a Kubernetes cluster responsible for managing network connectivity to Kubernetes services. It runs on each node in the cluster and maintains network rules to handle forwarding of traffic to the appropriate pods or services. Essentially, kube-proxy enables communication between different parts of your Kubernetes cluster.

    Here's what kube-proxy does:

    - **Service Proxy**
     
      Kube-proxy maintains network rules on each node to support service abstraction. It watches the Kubernetes API for changes to services and endpoints and updates the rules accordingly. This ensures that traffic to a service's ClusterIP, NodePort, or LoadBalancer is properly forwarded to the correct destination pods.
    
    - **Load Balancing**
    
      For services that require load balancing, kube-proxy distributes incoming requests across multiple pods that provide the service. This helps distribute the workload evenly and ensures high availability and scalability of applications.

    - **NodePort Handling**
    
      If a service is exposed using the NodePort type, kube-proxy ensures that each node in the cluster forwards traffic on the specified port to the appropriate pods, even if those pods are on different nodes.

    - **Cluster Networking**
    
      Kube-proxy plays a role in enabling communication between pods across nodes in the cluster by managing network routing and IP address assignment.

    <br><br>When one pod wants to communicate with another pod within the same Kubernetes cluster:

    - It typically sends the request to the IP address associated with the service.

    - The request is intercepted by kube-proxy, which manages service abstraction and routing.

    - Kube-proxy forwards the request to the appropriate pod based on the service's endpoint configuration.

    - DNS resolution might be involved, but it's handled internally by Kubernetes rather than relying directly on the node's DNS.

      ![](img/service-network-2.png)


<br><br>


  **Kube-proxy modes**
  - **Kube-proxy IPTABLES Mode**
    - Default since Kubernetes 1.2
    - Doesn't scale well
    - Not really designed for load balancing
  - **Kube-proxy IPVS Mode**
    - Stable (GA) since Kubernetes 1.11
    - Uses Linux kernel IP Virtual Server
    - Native Layer-4 load balancer
    - Supports more algorithms

    - Note:
      Kube-proxy in IPVS mode does create dummy interfaces on the Service Network (usually called kube-ipvs®). Kube-proxy in IPTABLES mode does not.



## Kubernetes Storage

- Kubernetes Storage Big Picture

  **Kubernetes volumes** are all about decoupling storage from Pods. Without PVs all your data lives and dies with pod (crash, scaling up/down). 

  Storage in K8s is refered to as `Volumes`, but also known as LUNs, devices, shares, mounts, spaces, etc.

  Fundamental storage requirements
  - Speed
  - Replication
  - Resiliency
  - etc

  Storage in K8s is implemented via combination of third-party infrastructure(EBS, S3,etc) Container Storage Interface (CSI) and PV Subsystem (PV, PVC SC):

  ![](img/storage-1.png)

- The Container Storage Interface

  Previously the link between extrernal storage and PV Subsystem was a part of K8s core.

  CSI replaced this approach and is an open-standard implementation (https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec). 

- Persistent Volumes and Persistent Volume Claims


- Storage Classes


- Demo


- Section Recap




## From Code to Kubernetes
- Section Intro


- Big Picture


- Demo


- Section Recap




## Kubernetes Deployments
- Section Intro


- Theory of Deployments


- Demo


- Recap




## Scaling Applications Automatically
- Section Intro


- Big Picture


- Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Theory


- Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Demo


- Cluster Autoscaler Theory


- Cluster Autoscaler Demo


- Section Recap




## RBAC and Admission Control
- Section Intro


- Big Picture


- Authentication


- Authorization


- Admission Control


- Demo


- Recap




## Other Kubernetes Stuff
- Other Kubernetes Stuff
