CKA/2.ExploringTheKubernetesArchitecture.md, before:

# CHAPTER 2<br>Exploring the Kubernetes Architecture

### Table of contents
  - Introduction, Course and Module Overview
  - What is Kubernetes? Kubernetes Benefits and Operating Principles
  - Introducing the Kubernetes API - Objects and API Server
  - Understanding API Objects - Pods
  - Understanding API Objects - Controllers
  - Understanding API Objects - Services
  - Understanding API Objects - Storage
  - Kubernetes Cluster Components Overview and Control Plane
  - Nodes
  - Cluster Add-on Pods
  - Pod Operations
  - Service Operations
  - Kubernetes Networking Dundamentals
  - Module summary and what is next

<br>

## Introduction, Course and Module Overview
- What is Kubernetes?
- Exploring Kubernetes Architecture
  - Cluster Components
  - Networking Fundamentals

<br><br><br>

## What is Kubernetes? Kubernetes Benefits and Operating Principles

At its core, Kubernetes is a **container orchestrator**. This means it is responsible for **starting and stopping container-based applications** according to the requirements set by system administrators or developers.

### Key Functions of Kubernetes
1. **Workload Placement**  
   Kubernetes determines **where** a container-based application should be deployed within a cluster. It considers factors like:
   - Which servers the application should run on.
   - Whether it needs to be co-located with other services or containers.
   - How to distribute workloads efficiently.
2. **Infrastructure Abstraction**  
   Developers can deploy applications without worrying about the **underlying infrastructure**. Kubernetes automatically:
   - Schedules workloads.
   - Configures load balancers.
   - Manages networking and storage.
3. **Desired State Management**  
   Kubernetes ensures that the system remains in its **desired state** as defined by the administrator or developer.  
   - Developers describe the **desired state** in configuration files.
   - Kubernetes continuously ensures the running state matches the desired state.
   - If a failure occurs (e.g., a crashed container), Kubernetes restores the system to the defined desired state.

### Benefits of Kubernetes
- **Fast Deployment**  
  Kubernetes enables rapid deployment of container-based applications, allowing:
  - Developers to push code changes to production quickly.
  - Fast iteration and release cycles.
- **Automated Recovery**  
  If a system deviates from its desired state (e.g., due to container failure or server crash), Kubernetes:
  - Detects the issue.
  - Deploys replacement containers automatically.
  - Restores the system to its correct state.
- **Hides Infrastructure Complexity**  
  Kubernetes abstracts away complex infrastructure tasks, handling:
  - **Storage** management.
  - **Networking** configuration.
  - **Workload placement** decisions.

### Core Operating Principles of Kubernetes
1. **Desired State & Declarative Configuration**  
   - Kubernetes uses a **declarative approach**, where administrators define the desired state of applications in configuration files.
   - Kubernetes then ensures that the system reaches and maintains this state.
2. **Controllers & Control Loops**  
   - **Controllers** are responsible for **monitoring** the system’s state and ensuring it remains in the desired state.
   - Example: If we specify **three web application containers**, the controller ensures that exactly three instances are running at all times.
   - If a container crashes, the controller automatically replaces it.
3. **Kubernetes API**  
   - The **Kubernetes API** provides objects for defining and managing systems programmatically.
   - The API is implemented through the **API Server**, which:
     - Acts as the central communication hub for all components in a Kubernetes cluster.
     - Enables administrators and developers to interact with Kubernetes for deployment and management.

By leveraging these principles, Kubernetes automates application deployment, scaling, and recovery, making it a powerful platform for containerized applications.



<br><br><br>



## Introducing the Kubernetes API - Objects and API Server
### API Objects and Their Role  
Kubernetes operates using a collection of **API objects**, which serve as the **primitives that define the system's state**. These objects include:

- **Pods** – Represent a deployed container or a collection of containers running as a unit.
- **Controllers** – Maintain the system in the **desired state** by managing workloads.
- **Services** – Provide a persistent access point to applications running in pods.
- **Storage Objects** – Enable persistent data storage for applications.

### Declarative vs. Imperative Approaches  
Kubernetes supports two ways of configuring system state:

1. **Declarative** – The desired system state is described in **YAML/JSON files**, and Kubernetes ensures that the system conforms to it.  
2. **Imperative** – The system is modified through direct **command-line execution** of `kubectl` commands.

### Kubernetes API Server  
The **API Server** is the central communication hub of a Kubernetes cluster. It operates as a **RESTful API over HTTP/HTTPS** using **JSON**, and:

- **Serves as the sole interface** for administrators and Kubernetes components to interact with the cluster.
- **Handles object creation and configuration changes**, serializing them and persisting them into the cluster’s datastore.

### Core Kubernetes API Objects  

#### **1. Pods**  
Pods represent the fundamental unit of deployment in Kubernetes. They can consist of a **single container** or multiple **co-located containers** that share networking and storage.

#### **2. Controllers**  
Controllers ensure that the cluster maintains the **desired state** of applications. Key controllers include:

- **ReplicaSets** – Ensure a specified number of identical pods are running.
- **Deployments** – Manage updates and rollbacks of application versions.

#### **3. Services**  
Since **Pods are ephemeral**, they can be created and destroyed dynamically. **Services** provide a stable access point to pods by:

- Load balancing traffic across pod replicas.
- Enabling **automatic discovery** of application endpoints.

#### **4. Storage**  
Kubernetes provides storage objects for persistent data needs. Storage can be:

- **Ephemeral** – Lost when the pod is deleted.
- **Persistent Volumes (PVs)** – Maintain data beyond the lifecycle of a pod.



<br><br><br>



## Understanding API Objects - Pods
### What is a Pod?  
A **pod** is the smallest deployable unit in Kubernetes, representing **one or more containers** running together as a unit. Each pod encapsulates:

- A **containerized application** or service.
- **Resource definitions** specifying CPU, memory, and storage requirements.
- **Networking configurations** for communication between containers and the cluster.

### Key Characteristics of Pods  
1. **Ephemerality**  
   - Pods are **not redeployed** if they fail. Instead, a new pod is created from the same container image.
   - No state is maintained between failed and newly created pods unless persistent storage is used.
2. **Atomicity**  
   - A **single-container pod** is either running or not.
   - A **multi-container pod** is considered unavailable if any of its containers fail.
3. **Scheduling**  
   - Kubernetes assigns pods to available **nodes** based on resource requirements and cluster capacity.
   - Pods are dynamically scheduled and relocated as needed.

### Maintaining Pod Health  
Kubernetes ensures that applications stay in their **desired state** using **controllers** and **health checks**.

- **State Tracking**  
  - Kubernetes monitors if a pod and its containers are running as expected.
- **Health Probes**  
  Kubernetes uses probes to check an application’s health inside a pod:
  - **Liveness Probe** – Checks if the application is still running.
  - **Readiness Probe** – Determines if the application is ready to accept traffic.
  - **Startup Probe** – Verifies that an application has started correctly.


#### Example: Defining a Liveness Probe in a Pod  
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-app
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-app:latest
    livenessProbe:
      httpGet:
        path: /health
        port: 8080
      initialDelaySeconds: 3
      periodSeconds: 5
```

In this example:
- The **liveness probe** checks the `/health` endpoint every 5 seconds.
- If the probe fails, Kubernetes restarts the pod.

### Summary  
Pods are the **building blocks of Kubernetes deployments**, responsible for running containerized applications. Since they are **ephemeral** and **atomic**, Kubernetes uses **controllers and probes** to maintain application health and ensure reliability.

Commit message:

Add Pod liveliness probe failure content

CKA/2.ExploringTheKubernetesArchitecture.md, after:

# CHAPTER 2<br>Exploring the Kubernetes Architecture

### Table of contents
  - Introduction, Course and Module Overview
  - What is Kubernetes? Kubernetes Benefits and Operating Principles
  - Introducing the Kubernetes API - Objects and API Server
  - Understanding API Objects - Pods
  - Understanding API Objects - Controllers
  - Understanding API Objects - Services
  - Understanding API Objects - Storage
  - Kubernetes Cluster Components Overview and Control Plane
  - Nodes
  - Cluster Add-on Pods
  - Pod Operations
  - Service Operations
  - Kubernetes Networking Dundamentals
  - Module summary and what is next

<br>

## Introduction, Course and Module Overview
- What is Kubernetes?
- Exploring Kubernetes Architecture
  - Cluster Components
  - Networking Fundamentals

<br><br><br>

## What is Kubernetes? Kubernetes Benefits and Operating Principles

At its core, Kubernetes is a **container orchestrator**. This means it is responsible for **starting and stopping container-based applications** according to the requirements set by system administrators or developers.

### Key Functions of Kubernetes
1. **Workload Placement**  
   Kubernetes determines **where** a container-based application should be deployed within a cluster. It considers factors like:
   - Which servers the application should run on.
   - Whether it needs to be co-located with other services or containers.
   - How to distribute workloads efficiently.
2. **Infrastructure Abstraction**  
   Developers can deploy applications without worrying about the **underlying infrastructure**. Kubernetes automatically:
   - Schedules workloads.
   - Configures load balancers.
   - Manages networking and storage.
3. **Desired State Management**  
   Kubernetes ensures that the system remains in its **desired state** as defined by the administrator or developer.  
   - Developers describe the **desired state** in configuration files.
   - Kubernetes continuously ensures the running state matches the desired state.
   - If a failure occurs (e.g., a crashed container), Kubernetes restores the system to the defined desired state.

### Benefits of Kubernetes
- **Fast Deployment**  
  Kubernetes enables rapid deployment of container-based applications, allowing:
  - Developers to push code changes to production quickly.
  - Fast iteration and release cycles.
- **Automated Recovery**  
  If a system deviates from its desired state (e.g., due to container failure or server crash), Kubernetes:
  - Detects the issue.
  - Deploys replacement containers automatically.
  - Restores the system to its correct state.
- **Hides Infrastructure Complexity**  
  Kubernetes abstracts away complex infrastructure tasks, handling:
  - **Storage** management.
  - **Networking** configuration.
  - **Workload placement** decisions.

### Core Operating Principles of Kubernetes
1. **Desired State & Declarative Configuration**  
   - Kubernetes uses a **declarative approach**, where administrators define the desired state of applications in configuration files.
   - Kubernetes then ensures that the system reaches and maintains this state.
2. **Controllers & Control Loops**  
   - **Controllers** are responsible for **monitoring** the system’s state and ensuring it remains in the desired state.
   - Example: If we specify **three web application containers**, the controller ensures that exactly three instances are running at all times.
   - If a container crashes, the controller automatically replaces it.
3. **Kubernetes API**  
   - The **Kubernetes API** provides objects for defining and managing systems programmatically.
   - The API is implemented through the **API Server**, which:
     - Acts as the central communication hub for all components in a Kubernetes cluster.
     - Enables administrators and developers to interact with Kubernetes for deployment and management.

By leveraging these principles, Kubernetes automates application deployment, scaling, and recovery, making it a powerful platform for containerized applications.



<br><br><br>



## Introducing the Kubernetes API - Objects and API Server
### API Objects and Their Role  
Kubernetes operates using a collection of **API objects**, which serve as the **primitives that define the system's state**. These objects include:

- **Pods** – Represent a deployed container or a collection of containers running as a unit.
- **Controllers** – Maintain the system in the **desired state** by managing workloads.
- **Services** – Provide a persistent access point to applications running in pods.
- **Storage Objects** – Enable persistent data storage for applications.

### Declarative vs. Imperative Approaches  
Kubernetes supports two ways of configuring system state:

1. **Declarative** – The desired system state is described in **YAML/JSON files**, and Kubernetes ensures that the system conforms to it.  
2. **Imperative** – The system is modified through direct **command-line execution** of `kubectl` commands.

### Kubernetes API Server  
The **API Server** is the central communication hub of a Kubernetes cluster. It operates as a **RESTful API over HTTP/HTTPS** using **JSON**, and:

- **Serves as the sole interface** for administrators and Kubernetes components to interact with the cluster.
- **Handles object creation and configuration changes**, serializing them and persisting them into the cluster’s datastore.

### Core Kubernetes API Objects  

#### **1. Pods**  
Pods represent the fundamental unit of deployment in Kubernetes. They can consist of a **single container** or multiple **co-located containers** that share networking and storage.

#### **2. Controllers**  
Controllers ensure that the cluster maintains the **desired state** of applications. Key controllers include:

- **ReplicaSets** – Ensure a specified number of identical pods are running.
- **Deployments** – Manage updates and rollbacks of application versions.

#### **3. Services**  
Since **Pods are ephemeral**, they can be created and destroyed dynamically. **Services** provide a stable access point to pods by:

- Load balancing traffic across pod replicas.
- Enabling **automatic discovery** of application endpoints.

#### **4. Storage**  
Kubernetes provides storage objects for persistent data needs. Storage can be:

- **Ephemeral** – Lost when the pod is deleted.
- **Persistent Volumes (PVs)** – Maintain data beyond the lifecycle of a pod.



<br><br><br>



## Understanding API Objects - Pods
### What is a Pod?  
A **pod** is the smallest deployable unit in Kubernetes, representing **one or more containers** running together as a unit. Each pod encapsulates:

- A **containerized application** or service.
- **Resource definitions** specifying CPU, memory, and storage requirements.
- **Networking configurations** for communication between containers and the cluster.

### Key Characteristics of Pods  
1. **Ephemerality**  
   - Pods are **not redeployed** if they fail. Instead, a new pod is created from the same container image.
   - No state is maintained between failed and newly created pods unless persistent storage is used.
2. **Atomicity**  
   - A **single-container pod** is either running or not.
   - A **multi-container pod** is considered unavailable if any of its containers fail.
3. **Scheduling**  
   - Kubernetes assigns pods to available **nodes** based on resource requirements and cluster capacity.
   - Pods are dynamically scheduled and relocated as needed.

### Maintaining Pod Health  
Kubernetes ensures that applications stay in their **desired state** using **controllers** and **health checks**.

- **State Tracking**  
  - Kubernetes monitors if a pod and its containers are running as expected.
- **Health Probes**  
  Kubernetes uses probes to check an application’s health inside a pod:
  - **Liveness Probe** – Checks if the application is still running.
  - **Readiness Probe** – Determines if the application is ready to accept traffic.
  - **Startup Probe** – Verifies that an application has started correctly.


#### Example: Defining a Liveness Probe in a Pod  
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-app
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-app:latest
    livenessProbe:
      httpGet:
        path: /health
        port: 8080
      initialDelaySeconds: 3
      periodSeconds: 5
```

In this example:
- The **liveness probe** checks the `/health` endpoint every 5 seconds.
- If the probe fails, Kubernetes restarts the pod.

### Managing failures
When a **liveness probe** fails for the first time, Kubernetes does **not immediately** restart the pod. Instead, it follows these steps based on the probe configuration:  

1. **Failure Threshold & PeriodSeconds**  
   - The liveness probe runs at an interval defined by `periodSeconds` (e.g., every 5 seconds).  
   - Kubernetes only restarts the container if the probe fails **`failureThreshold` times in a row**.  
   - Example: If `failureThreshold: 3` and `periodSeconds: 5`, the container must fail **three consecutive times** (15 seconds total) before Kubernetes restarts it.
2. **Restart Policy**  
   - If a liveness probe fails the required number of times, Kubernetes **restarts the container** (not the entire pod).
   - The pod remains unchanged unless its **restart policy** is set to `Never` (default is `Always`).
