CKA/demo/1.Installing-and-Configuring-containerd.md, before:

## Installing Containerd, Kubelet, Kubeadm, and Kubectl

### Overview
This demo covers the installation of essential Kubernetes components:
- **Containerd**
- **Kubelet**
- **Kubeadm**
- **Kubectl**

Additionally, we will examine related **Systemd Units** to understand their interaction with the operating system.

### Setup Environment
- The demo is conducted using **VS Code**.
- Four **Ubuntu 22.04 VMs** have been deployed.
- SSH connection is established to `C1-CP1`.

### Step 1: Disable Swap
Before installing Kubernetes, swap must be disabled.

```bash
sudo swapoff -a
```
If the command produces no output, swap is successfully disabled.

#### Permanent Swap Disablement
Edit the `/etc/fstab` file and **comment out** the swap entry:
```bash
sudo nano /etc/fstab
```
Locate the swap line and prepend `#`:
```
# /swapfile none swap sw 0 0
```
Save and exit the file, then reboot the system:
```bash
sudo reboot
```

### Step 2: Load Kernel Modules & Sysctl Parameters
#### Load Required Kernel Modules
```bash
echo -e "overlay\nbr_netfilter" | sudo tee /etc/modules-load.d/k8s.conf
sudo modprobe overlay
sudo modprobe br_netfilter
```

#### Set Sysctl Parameters for Kubernetes Networking
```bash
echo -e "net.bridge.bridge-nf-call-iptables = 1\nnet.ipv4.ip_forward = 1\nnet.bridge.bridge-nf-call-ip6tables = 1" | sudo tee /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf
sudo sysctl --system
```

### Step 3: Install Containerd
#### Install the Package
```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y containerd
```

#### Configure Containerd
Create the configuration directory:
```bash
sudo mkdir -p /etc/containerd
```
Generate the default config file:
```bash
sudo containerd config default | sudo tee /etc/containerd/config.toml
```

#### Enable SystemdCgroup Driver
Modify `config.toml`:
```bash
sudo sed -i 's/SystemdCgroup = false/SystemdCgroup = true/' /etc/containerd/config.toml
```
Verify the change:
```bash
grep SystemdCgroup /etc/containerd/config.toml
```
Expected output:
```
SystemdCgroup = true
```

#### Restart Containerd
```bash
sudo systemctl restart containerd
```

### Next Steps
Once Containerd is configured, we proceed with installing **Kubelet, Kubeadm, and Kubectl** in the following steps.

Commit message:

Add additional details to swap disablement steps

CKA/demo/1.Installing-and-Configuring-containerd.md, after:

## Installing Containerd, Kubelet, Kubeadm, and Kubectl

### Overview
This demo covers the installation of essential Kubernetes components:
- **Containerd**
- **Kubelet**
- **Kubeadm**
- **Kubectl**

Additionally, we will examine related **Systemd Units** to understand their interaction with the operating system.

### Setup Environment
- The demo is conducted using **VS Code**.
- Four **Ubuntu 22.04 VMs** have been deployed.
- SSH connection is established to `C1-CP1`.

### Step 1: Disable Swap
Before installing Kubernetes, swap must be disabled.
Swap interferes with Kubernetes resource management
Kubernetes expects to have full control over node memory allocation. If swap is enabled, the Linux kernel can move parts of memory to disk when under memory pressure. This can lead to:
    - **Inconsistent scheduling behavior**<br>Pods might be scheduled based on inaccurate available memory.
    - **Node instability**<br>Critical processes (like Kubelet or containers) might be swapped out or slowed down.

Disable swap, swapoff then edit your fstab removing any entry for swap partitions.

```bash
sudo swapoff -a
```
If the command produces no output, swap is successfully disabled.

#### Permanent Swap Disablement
Edit the `/etc/fstab` file and **comment out** the swap entry:
```bash
sudo nano /etc/fstab
```
Locate the swap line and prepend `#`:
```
# /swapfile none swap sw 0 0
```
Save and exit the file, then reboot the system:
```bash
sudo reboot
```

### Step 2: Load Kernel Modules & Sysctl Parameters
#### Load Required Kernel Modules
```bash
echo -e "overlay\nbr_netfilter" | sudo tee /etc/modules-load.d/k8s.conf
sudo modprobe overlay
sudo modprobe br_netfilter
```

#### Set Sysctl Parameters for Kubernetes Networking
```bash
echo -e "net.bridge.bridge-nf-call-iptables = 1\nnet.ipv4.ip_forward = 1\nnet.bridge.bridge-nf-call-ip6tables = 1" | sudo tee /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf
sudo sysctl --system
```

### Step 3: Install Containerd
#### Install the Package
```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y containerd
```

#### Configure Containerd
Create the configuration directory:
```bash
sudo mkdir -p /etc/containerd
```
Generate the default config file:
```bash
sudo containerd config default | sudo tee /etc/containerd/config.toml
```

#### Enable SystemdCgroup Driver
Modify `config.toml`:
```bash
sudo sed -i 's/SystemdCgroup = false/SystemdCgroup = true/' /etc/containerd/config.toml
```
Verify the change:
```bash
grep SystemdCgroup /etc/containerd/config.toml
```
Expected output:
```
SystemdCgroup = true
```

#### Restart Containerd
```bash
sudo systemctl restart containerd
```

### Next Steps
Once Containerd is configured, we proceed with installing **Kubelet, Kubeadm, and Kubectl** in the following steps.
