Helm/Helm-Deep-Dive-V3/labs/3.Helm-Installation.md, before:

# Helm Installation

### Lab Overview
In this hands-on lab, we will install Helm and configure the standard repository. Once that is complete, we will release a chart to ensure everything is working properly. After the release is verified, we will use Helm to clean up our cluster and remove the resources we created.

### Objectives
- Install and Configure Helm
- Create a Helm Release
- Verify the Release and Clean Up

<br><br><br>


# Solution

<br><br>

## Install and Configure Helm
- Run the wget command with the tar file provided for the lab to install Helm.
    ```sh
    wget https://get.helm.sh/helm-v3.12.3-linux-amd64.tar.gz
    ```
- Run the tar -xzf and ls -l commands to extract and view the file and the related linux-amd64 folder.
    
    ```sh
    tar -xzf helm-v3.12.3-linux-amd64.tar.gz
    ls -l
    ```

- Run the ls -l command to view the linux-amd64 folder. The helm executable binary is located in this folder.
- Run the mv command to move the helm executable to the /usr/local/bin/ directory.
    ```sh
    mv ./linux-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin/
    ```

- If you receive a "Permission denied" error, run the sudo !! command and use the password provided for the lab.

    ```sh
    sudo !!
    ```

- Run the ls -l command on the /usr/local/bin/ directory to ensure the helm binary is still owned by cloud_user and can still be run.

    ```sh
    ls -l /usr/local/bin/
    ```

- Run the helm version command to ensure Helm is available on the path. This shows the version of Helm that is currently installed.

    ```sh
    helm version
    ```

- Add the bitnami repo.
    ```sh
    helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
    ```

- Run the helm repo update command to verify the repository is up-to-date.
    ```sh
    helm repo update
    ```

<br><br><br>

## Create a Helm Release
- Run the helm install test command for wordpress to create a test release.
    ```sh
    helm install test bitnami/wordpress
    ```

- Run the helm list command to show the release details.
    ```sh
    helm list
    ```

- Run the kubcetl get po command to verify the release resources were created.
    ```sh
    kubectl get po
    ```

- Run the kiubectl get svc command to view the release's services.
    ```sh
    kubectl get service
    ```

<br><br><br>

## Verify the Release and Clean Up
Run the helm uninstall or the helm delete command with the release name.
    ```sh
    helm uninstall test
    ```
OR
    ```sh
    helm delete test
    ```

- After uninstalling or deleting the test release, run the kubectl get po command to confirm there are no resources in the default namespace.
    ```sh
    kubectl get po
    ```

- Run the kubectl get svc command to verify that Kubernetes is now the only service.
    ```sh
    kubectl get svc
    ```

Commit message:

Add bitnami test wordpress installation verification

Helm/Helm-Deep-Dive-V3/labs/3.Helm-Installation.md, after:

# Helm Installation

### Lab Overview
In this hands-on lab, we will install Helm and configure the standard repository. Once that is complete, we will release a chart to ensure everything is working properly. After the release is verified, we will use Helm to clean up our cluster and remove the resources we created.

### Objectives
- Install and Configure Helm
- Create a Helm Release
- Verify the Release and Clean Up

<br><br><br>


# Solution

<br><br>

## Install and Configure Helm
- Run the wget command with the tar file provided for the lab to install Helm.
    ```sh
    wget https://get.helm.sh/helm-v3.12.3-linux-amd64.tar.gz
    ```
- Run the tar -xzf and ls -l commands to extract and view the file and the related linux-amd64 folder.
    
    ```sh
    tar -xzf helm-v3.12.3-linux-amd64.tar.gz
    ls -l
    ```

- Run the ls -l command to view the linux-amd64 folder. The helm executable binary is located in this folder.
- Run the mv command to move the helm executable to the /usr/local/bin/ directory.
    ```sh
    mv ./linux-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin/
    ```

- If you receive a "Permission denied" error, run the sudo !! command and use the password provided for the lab.

    ```sh
    sudo !!
    ```

- Run the ls -l command on the /usr/local/bin/ directory to ensure the helm binary is still owned by cloud_user and can still be run.

    ```sh
    ls -l /usr/local/bin/
    ```

- Run the helm version command to ensure Helm is available on the path. This shows the version of Helm that is currently installed.

    ```sh
    helm version
    ```

- Add the bitnami repo.
    ```sh
    helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
    ```

- Run the helm repo update command to verify the repository is up-to-date.
    ```sh
    helm repo update
    ```

<br><br><br>

## Create a Helm Release
- Run the helm install test command for wordpress to create a test release.
    ```sh
    helm install test bitnami/wordpress
    ```

    ```sh
    ** Please be patient while the chart is being deployed **

    Your WordPress site can be accessed through the following DNS name from within your cluster:

        test-wordpress.default.svc.cluster.local (port 80)

    To access your WordPress site from outside the cluster follow the steps below:

    1. Get the WordPress URL by running these commands:

    NOTE: It may take a few minutes for the LoadBalancer IP to be available.
            Watch the status with: 'kubectl get svc --namespace default -w test-wordpress'

    export SERVICE_IP=$(kubectl get svc --namespace default test-wordpress --template "{{ range (index .status.loadBalancer.ingress 0) }}{{ . }}{{ end }}")
    echo "WordPress URL: http://$SERVICE_IP/"
    echo "WordPress Admin URL: http://$SERVICE_IP/admin"

    2. Open a browser and access WordPress using the obtained URL.

    3. Login with the following credentials below to see your blog:

    echo Username: user
    echo Password: $(kubectl get secret --namespace default test-wordpress -o jsonpath="{.data.wordpress-password}" | base64 -d)

    ```

- Run the helm list command to show the release details.
    ```sh
    helm list
    ```

- Run the kubcetl get po command to verify the release resources were created.
    ```sh
    kubectl get po
    ```

- Run the kiubectl get svc command to view the release's services.
    ```sh
    kubectl get service
    ```

<br><br><br>

## Verify the Release and Clean Up
Run the helm uninstall or the helm delete command with the release name.
    ```sh
    helm uninstall test
    ```
OR
    ```sh
    helm delete test
    ```

- After uninstalling or deleting the test release, run the kubectl get po command to confirm there are no resources in the default namespace.
    ```sh
    kubectl get po
    ```

- Run the kubectl get svc command to verify that Kubernetes is now the only service.
    ```sh
    kubectl get svc
    ```
