# Helm Installation

### Lab Overview
In this hands-on lab, we will install Helm and configure the standard repository. Once that is complete, we will release a chart to ensure everything is working properly. After the release is verified, we will use Helm to clean up our cluster and remove the resources we created.

### Objectives
- Install and Configure Helm
- Create a Helm Release
- Verify the Release and Clean Up

<br><br><br>


# Solution

<br><br>

## Install and Configure Helm
- Run the wget command with the tar file provided for the lab to install Helm.
    ```sh
    wget https://get.helm.sh/helm-v3.12.3-linux-amd64.tar.gz
    ```
- Run the tar -xzf and ls -l commands to extract and view the file and the related linux-amd64 folder.
    
    ```sh
    tar -xzf helm-v3.12.3-linux-amd64.tar.gz
    ls -l
    ```

- Run the ls -l command to view the linux-amd64 folder. The helm executable binary is located in this folder.
- Run the mv command to move the helm executable to the /usr/local/bin/ directory.
    ```sh
    mv ./linux-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin/
    ```

- If you receive a "Permission denied" error, run the sudo !! command and use the password provided for the lab.

    ```sh
    sudo !!
    ```

- Run the ls -l command on the /usr/local/bin/ directory to ensure the helm binary is still owned by cloud_user and can still be run.

    ```sh
    ls -l /usr/local/bin/
    ```

- Run the helm version command to ensure Helm is available on the path. This shows the version of Helm that is currently installed.

    ```sh
    helm version
    ```

- Add the bitnami repo.
    ```sh
    helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
    ```

- Run the helm repo update command to verify the repository is up-to-date.
    ```sh
    helm repo update
    ```

<br><br><br>

## Create a Helm Release
- Run the helm install test command for wordpress to create a test release.
    ```sh
    helm install test bitnami/wordpress
    ```

- Run the helm list command to show the release details.
    ```sh
    helm list
    ```

- Run the kubcetl get po command to verify the release resources were created.
    ```sh
    kubectl get po
    ```

- Run the kiubectl get svc command to view the release's services.
    ```sh
    kubectl get service
    ```

<br><br><br>

## Verify the Release and Clean Up
Run the helm uninstall or the helm delete command with the release name.
    ```sh
    helm uninstall test
    ```
OR
    ```sh
    helm delete test
    ```

- After uninstalling or deleting the test release, run the kubectl get po command to confirm there are no resources in the default namespace.
    ```sh
    kubectl get po
    ```

- Run the kubectl get svc command to verify that Kubernetes is now the only service.
    ```sh
    kubectl get svc
    ```